- [Lecturer] As I mention, the Inversion of Control pattern
is a core pattern in the Spring Framework.
And in my opinion, is the core pattern
for for all of Spring's operational behavior.
Now, let's talk a little bit about what IoC is.
As I alluded to before,
it is not a Gang of Four design pattern.
But nonetheless, this is architectural pattern
for relegating control of dependencies to the container
instead of the developer having to be responsible
for the construction of those dependencies.
Now, often this is called Dependency Injection,
though, that is only one flavor of IoC.
Now, I tend to make that mistake
and call IoC and Dependency injection the same thing,
and that's just natural,
because from a Spring Framework perspective,
Dependency Injection is one of the primary benefits
of using the IoC pattern.
And next to one of most develpers actually interact with
on a regular basis.
Now, let's talk a little bit about how it works.
A central container constructs
and maintains all objects references
and subsequent state of those objects.
When another component within the ecosystem needs an object,
the IoC container hands it to them
at runtime or at start up.
This provides centralized control,
and management for all objects in the runtime.
Now, in Spring,
the IoC container
manages all of your dependencies,
at least the one that you hand to Spring.
So, it will not manage those dependencies
that you don't ask it to,
but once you ask it to manage a dependency,
it will do so to the life cycle of the application,
and not allow them to be destroyed until
it goes into its shutdown routine.
There is an exception to this,
and that is the way the prototypes work,
but we'll talk about that when we get there.
Objects are injected at runtime,
not at compile time.
Now, what do I mean by that?
When you're writing a traditional application
and not using IoC,
you construct the object
and inject it in your code.
In Spring, the objects are constructed at startup
and injected into the runtime,
so the developer doesn't really have to deal with them
when they're actually writing and compiling their code.
An object accepts the dependencies for construction
instead of you constructing them.
Now, in reality, you still have to tell Spring
how to construct your objects under many circumstances,
but you only do it once
instead of lettering it throughout your code,
and that's where IoC has power.
So, what are some of the benefits of IoC
and the ones that we care about?
First and foremost, it reduces noise in your code.
Consider the consequence of creating a JDBC connection
for instance everywhere in your application,
where you make a connection to the database.
That can get really, really loud from a code perspective,
and when you think about the fact
that all of that's boilerplate,
yeah, we'll talk about that with the template pattern.
But the point is that when you use IoC,
because you're not constructing those objects,
you reduce the noise in your code,
it also reduces object coupling,
because you are handed a dependency into your object,
you're not as tightly coupled to it,
because you actually don't need to know how it's constructed
at compiled time or at writing of code time.
It also reduces the defects
that arrives from incorrect construction.
Now what do I mean by that?
Normally when we construct an object,
we write a new line and then we construct the object
and add everything that we mean,
and then next time that we need to construct that object,
we tend to copy and paste,
and while that may seem okay in some circumstances,
that does cause defects to arise,
you missed a line,
you needed to change a value,
something is different, and when you copy paste,
you ask for defects,
that's just the nature of software development.
So, because the IoC container handles all of construction,
you reduce those defects that arise
from the construction itself.
Now, the core is the Application Context.
Spring's Application Context is the IoC Container,
another pattern is also in play,
and we're going to talk about that
and that is the Bean Factory,
which leverages the factory pattern.
But again, the Ioc container is the Application Context
and it leverages configuration to create the beans
and manage the dependency injections.
Now, truly understanding dependency injection,
and inversion of control, and how the Application Context
comes into play in a Spring application,
is beyond the scope of this course.
But I have another course in the library called
Spring: Framework in Depth
that I highly encourage you to check out,
because it's actually going to talk about how
the Application Context is configured,
and how it's used through the lifecycle of the application.